Thank you very much, everyone. Welcome. Thank you. Come and participate. Thank you.
Again, to continue to follow the teachings of our gracious and completionist teacher,
the Buddha Shakyamuni, we activate our good motivation,
and which is joy and appreciation, and both each other, and purity, realization.
I think many of you already know, amazing, so many times about purity, purity.
According to the Buddha's teaching, according to the Vedayana teaching,
everything is enlightened. Everything is really good.
In even Sattar Mahayana, teaching also said, "Of course, this time, it's not really good."
We continue to follow the teaching and practice meditation,
and then gradually, everything will become beautiful.
Gradually, beautiful. Our minds will become beautiful for gradually getting filled in the field,
and also, our outlook also becomes filled in the field, so that means what?
Gradually, our subject will be filled in the field, and our subject will be filled in the field,
and ultimately, everything is filled in the state, and that time comes as enlightened states,
and perfect fuel and perfect physical, perfect retinal, perfect hope, that's what we're discussing
there.
So that is what the Sattar Mahayana teaching is.
And the Vedayana teaching is not waiting for a long time to gradually, gradually,
immediately be activating that, as it is, according to the teaching.
So for that reason, always in the teaching, there are three major stages.
That is the Mahayoga teachings. In Anayoga teachings, there are three mandala stages.
Everything is the three mandala stages.
In Maha Avin, the Zuki teaching says, "All in three kaya stages."
Three kayas are dharmakaya, sambakaya, namakaya.
That means subject is three kaya stages, object is three kaya stages.
All is in three kaya stages.
Three kaya is then enlightened, as we all know, dharmakaya, sambakaya, namakaya stages.
So then why we don't see now? Again, same reason, eulogies.
What is eulogies? Again, that means grasping, or when it is grasping, or clinging.
Clinging to the subject, clinging to the object. Then there are three things that are called eulog
ies.
That is a niche mode. You all know better than me.
But the main is known as zungzi, or idi, with grasping on the subject, grasping on the object.
Idi means duality, dual clings. That, that.
So what is that? Actually, it's good.
Both are drawn to the board, and the job drawn to the board is clinging.
Where does clinging come from? From ignorance, or unknowing.
Where does unknowing come from? From the pure nature of the truth, you can't.
That is known as death. We deluded ourselves.
That is the starting point of the Inazoki teaching of the samsara.
Unknowing is the beginning. And that's what, you know, we've been joined, or it's not just like we
've been joined.
In the kundasakupri, three moves, kundasakupri, ordinaly is built.
But, due to the ignorance, then there's tripat, ken.
One who recognize that ordinal feel as it is, they become enlightened.
One who recognize, not recognize that ordinal feel, they start roaming to the samsara.
That's the dividing point, is ignorance.
Ignorance is also known as subtle ignorance, gross ignorance.
Subtle ignorance is, is then grasping, subtle grasping to the, when arising energy came from the
ordinal nature,
the pure energy came, we, kunwalai, instantly did not recognize that is our own display, we panic.
We very still, still panic. I mean, small panic. Small panic, then we escape.
Oh, there's fear. F-E-A-R, fear. Let her fear. There's still, let that panic, panic.
Panic, and that combination of that, panic is a combination of let her fear, fear, and kind of let
her doubt go ahead.
That is the beginning of the subtle in-bone ignorance. Very subtle.
From that, known as then, the gross ignorance, which is known as exaggeration, ignorance, that
which you develop.
From that, ignorance is then crude of ego clinking and negative emotions, all that arises.
Reality is pure. As we discussed yesterday, ground is pure. Foundation is pure. That is dukkim.
States. Pure ground dukkim is purity states. In that level, we, we and the buddha kyakhyamuni on
the buddha samantabhara,
we don't have difference, all the same. For that reason, in the prayer of the kundasamto, what it
says,
"I and all the sentient beings share the same nature." Same nature, we don't have any difference.
For recognizing that nature as it is buddha-hood, not recognizing as it is, begin the delusions of
samsara.
That is, what is dukkim teaching or the very un-teaching, we're not going to wait to get that
purity up and long-term.
Immediately, we're activating that. Instantly, we're activating that. Therefore, siddhi, everything
is purity states, purity states,
kri kaya states, dharma kaya, and sambho kaya, namakaya states. So, that is just like, I mean, that
, that's how.
So, we're activating that purity states, prestige. So, yo-ho in appreciation and as well as both
each other and that purity states.
Now, again, when we think, of course, it's true, but yo-ho in appreciation, the both each other and
the purity states, what is that?
That is, everything of the ultimate level, absolute truth, that is duality too.
But this duality, this good beneficial duality is lining up exactly where the nature is.
It's not something that we're distending from the nature. It's lining up to the nature. Therefore,
it is important.
Then everything, purity of sathya's dharma kaya, sambho kaya, namakaya, we talk always in the
teachings, but it starts to loosen the states.
Translucent states, as a lamp of bodies. That is what it is, nature is. That is what Buddha Chakry
amunya, the greatest teacher,
combustion teacher, taught, and for example, that we guide, always, many of them, we guide, I'm
sure many of you know, heart sutta.
What is it in heart sutta? Poem is emptiness. Emptiness is the poem. Poem is no other than the
emptiness. Emptiness is no other than the poem.
That is the ultimate nature. And completely kind of pulling down and also lifting up every notion
of the grasping and clingings by that.
There is nothing to hold. Grass vine is holding. If there is something to hold, that's perfect. But
there is nothing to hold.
Hold. And nothing to hold is also consumption. And for that reason, the greatest teacher, what is
it, is inconceivable.
The true nature is inconceivable or inexpressible. That is nature. From that nature arises all
these displays.
Without any pinpoint source, even scientific physics, I don't say they will know, they will say, it
is coming from here, it is coming from there.
All these divisions are kept on the relative levels. All that relative truth in the greatest
teacher, compassionate teacher, Buddha taught, has interdependent co-organization.
Interdependent, interconnected. All these things happen not just by itself, by one atom producing
every norm.
There is so many trillions and trillions of atoms, molecules or whatever. The particles are
combined together.
Gross levels, subtle levels. It is all joint together, like as Jyotsa puddles. All that gross level
and coming, all these things and functioning.
Everything. All that. And all that also based on the same nature where it came from. It is great
emptiness, great openness.
Everything. Therefore, integration, compassionate teacher say, everything is illusion. Everything
is a dream. Everything is a magic.
It is not just a making of trying to make those kind of puzzles. That is what reality is, relative
truth is. That is everything.
And to see this God, for example, this is, of course, this is like, God looks like solid. But to
become this, this trillions and trillions of the articles or particles combined together came not
by one thing.
And then to come here, also there are so many factors behind the same, on the same, all that came
here, all that got here. It is not just that, it is everything.
Everything. To come through, every simple thing. For example, how many things do we need to do to
break everything? There is this, this, this, this.
At a close level, there are so many subtle things. All that. That is known as in the Buddha's
teaching, interdependent coordination.
Co-ordination. For that reason, great master Nārajana said, if it is interdependent coordination,
it is emptiness.
If it is emptiness, that is what can interdependent coordination.
That is what is all. Because of emptiness, it is all coming. If there is no emptiness, if there is
no openness, it is blocked. It is stopped.
This is about everything. And therefore, our mind is also open-ended. Our awareness or the Rūpa is
here. Open-ended. Therefore, there is trillions of the conceptions arising.
Came, and arising, and welcome. And gone too. And they are here. But it is not congestion blocking
and all that.
Such total openness, because of the emptiness, awareness or Rūpa Kumbha. That is what really it is
.
So therefore, this nature is that total openness, flexible state, in a Dharmakaya status. In that
openness status, that Dharmakaya status, 'I' and 'Kundu Sambo' or 'We' and 'Kundu Sambo' or the 'B
uddha Shaktamuni' has no difference.
No difference. It is the same. But then, Buddhas, why they are called Buddhas? Because they are
recognized.
Nature and we did not recognize. The way things are, they are in nature. Then everything started.
So therefore, this is known as, then, brain beauty, at least lining up toward that direction. We
are not going to stay completely dark corner all the time.
We stay in that corner, dark corner, according to the Buddha's teaching, for the biggest time until
now.
How long is it? There is even no numbers. Countless time, we stay in that dark corner. We carry the
powerful river of the dualities.
Carry that us. That duality is once more created a river, a force of a river. We are not Kundurini.
We are struggling.
We are completely struggling. We are desperate. Desperate situations because our own creations, our
own mistakes, that is what the duality is.
Duality is holding to things, to the gospel. Reality, there is nothing to hold. Mind is sight that
salvation does not exist as we think.
Therefore, the greatest teacher, the Buddha said, "Empiness mind." Oni Doki said, "Rupa tumba." "R
upa means the awareness." "Tumba means the emptiness."
"Empiness awareness." That emptiness awareness is known as tarmakaya. This is what the greatest
master, mostly one of the famous masters, Navarajana said, "Again and again."
"Again and again." He pointed out, as the Buddha told. Clarified that. So strong, so beautiful.
Known as Mademaka.
Me? No. No holding anything. Free from all extremes. This grasping, clinging is extreme. Holding.
Then we nominate so many things above that.
We put the idea in the conception and the beliefs and this and that. It's just piling up all that
grasping.
Reality level, there is nothing that you can see and prove. Prove. And what is that? That is known
as the inconceivable, inexpressible.
This is not just making up things. That's what we think now. We think now. And so, to break that
realization is then to bring up that exactly as it is in front or leaning toward that.
Even we have been grasping the duality states over that. It's known as purity. Purity understands.
So with those told, again, we follow this great instruction from His Holiness.
His Holiness.